 that Protestants—often identified with a dummy variable in regression models—are more likely to own guns than 
persons from Catholic, non-Christian (especially Jewish), and non-religious backgrounds


Protestants and mainline Protestants.
This work typically finds that elevated rates of gun ownership are confined mainly to the more conservative 
Protestants, as compared with their mainline counterparts
showed that youths raised in conservative Protestant households tend to have easier access to firearms than 
other adolescents

These studies have occasionally found that regular churchgoers are less inclined to own or carry firearms 
than other persons

 On one hand, white evangelical Protestants are similar to other Americans in their high levels of support
 for certain gun policy measures
On the other hand, they are much less likely to support other restrictions. For example, according to the 
Pew data white evangelicals report lower levels of support than other Americans for bans on assault-style weapons


white evangelicals are disproportionately opposed to stricter gun control laws, and they are also much more 
inclined than others to support loosening existing gun regulations

They concluded that Christian nationalists fully embrace the guarantees afforded by 
the Second Amendment as “God-given” liberties.

For example, the belief that Satan is active in the material world has been linked with increased support
for conservative ideology and GOP politics (e.g., Wilcox et al. 1991), as well as intolerance of sexual 
and racial minorities

individuals who believe that a cosmic battle between good and evil is being waged here on earth,
may be especially fearful and vigilant
For individuals who perceive the world in this way, gun ownership may well be seen as a necessary risk reduction
 strategy.

Lastly, many evangelical leaders have made claims that Christians are more persecuted than other groups.
 After all, if there is a war against Christianity, then it stands to reason that Christians must be ready 
to protect their beliefs from the “evil” of secularization.

First, we expect that belief in supernatural evil will be associated with more liberal gun policy attitudes 
(i.e., those that increase the availability of firearms to civilians). Second, given the associations between
 supernatural evil belief and political ideology

To test these hypotheses, we use data from Wave Four of the Baylor Religion Survey (BRS), which was conducted in
 January of 2014.
Briefly, the BRS is a national random sample of 1572 non-institutionalized respondents ages 18 and over who reside in the continental 
United States.
 However, there are a few notable discrepancies (e.g., racial/ethnic minority groups are underrepresented in the BRS)
. Consequently, our analyses are based on weighted data; BRS sample weights account for differential
 selection and differential response and bring our sample characteristics into alignment with those of 
τhe adult population of the continental United States

Dependent variables: gun policy attitudes
BRS respondents were asked a series of eight items gauging their support for the following 
specific firearms policies


Religious variables
The measure of our focal predictor variable, belief in supernatural evil, is based on a three-item index.


Other variables


Multivariate analyses also control for background variables that are known correlates of gun ownership and 
policy preference
including: gender etc


Overall, these findings align well with the hypotheses that have guided this study. Belief in supernatural 
evil is consistently linked with approval of measures that would ensure that civilians will retain access
 to firearms—especially powerful and high-capacity defensive weapons—and that they can carry weapons concealed
 in a variety of public settings. 

Logistic Regression:

More armed teachers = 1.32 in paper, 1.10 in my study
Concealed weapons = 1.38 in paper, 1.04 in my study
MoreArmedSecurityatSchools = 1.6479 sn
MoreTeachersFacultywithGuns = 1.10549639 sn
CivilianHandGunPossessionBan = 1.06109908 sn

Political Ideology:

MoreTeachersFacultywithGuns = 0.56819406
MoreArmedSecurityatSchools = 1.20775223
Concealed weapons = 0.60394342




